#summary Dijit Overview

The Dijit module includes Dojo's extensive UI library of widgets and components. Some examples of these widgets include dialog boxes, calendars, color palettes, tooltips, and trees. It also includes a set of form controls that provide much more functionality than the standard HTML form controls, as well as complete layout management options.

In *gwt-dojo-toolkit* Dijit is a separate GWT module. To use it add the following lines in your application's .gwt.xml file.

{{{
<inherits name='gwt.dojo.dijit.Dijit' />
<inherits name='gwt.dojo.dijit.ClaroTheme' />
}}}

=Dijit Basics=

You can use Dijit in one of two ways: *declaratively* by using special attributes inside of regular HTML tags, and *programmatically* through GWT Java (you are welcome to mix-and-match the two styles). You have the same options either way.

{{{
import gwt.dojo.core.client.Dojo;
import gwt.dojo.core.client.DojoCallback;
import gwt.dojo.core.client.DojoReady;
import gwt.dojo.core.client.JsArray;
import gwt.dojo.core.client.JsObject;
import gwt.dojo.dijit.client.Dialog;

import com.google.gwt.core.client.EntryPoint;

/**
 * Entry point classes define <code>onModuleLoad()</code>.
 */
public class Gwt_dojo_demo implements EntryPoint, DojoCallback {

	/**
	 * This is the entry point method.
	 */
//	public void xonModuleLoad() {
//		JsArray modules = JsArray.create();
//		modules.push(Parser.MODULE);
//		modules.push(BorderContainer.MODULE);
//		modules.push(TabContainer.MODULE);
//		modules.push(ContentPane.MODULE);
//		Dojo.require(modules, this);
//	}
	
	/**
	 * This is the entry point method.
	 */
	public void onModuleLoad() {
		JsArray modules = JsArray.create();
		modules.push(DojoReady.MODULE);
		modules.push(Dialog.MODULE);
		Dojo.require(modules, this);
	}

	@Override
	public void callback(JsArray arguments) {
		// create a "hidden" Dialog:
		JsObject options = JsObject.create();
		options.put(Dialog.ID, "someId");
		options.put(Dialog.TITLE, "Hello Dijit");
		Dialog myDialog = Dialog.create(options);
		myDialog.startup();
		
		// Hint: In order to open the dialog, you have to call
		//myDialog.show();
	}
}
}}}

is identical to:

{{{
<div data-dojo-type="dijit/Dialog" title="Hello Dijit!" id="someId"></div>
}}}